---
title: "System Wide Evidence of Particle Loss and Acceleration around Saturn, under review"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/2020_02_25
excerpt: 
date: 2019-02-25
venue:
paperurl:
citation: 'Azari, A. R., Allen, R. C., Liemohn, M. W., Jia, X., Dewey, R. M., Mitchell, D. G., Paranicas, C., and N. Sergis (2020). &quot;System Wide Evidence of Particle Loss and Acceleration around Saturn&quot;<i>Under review</i>'
---

Summary: Magnetized planets can be defined on a continuum ranging from internal to external influence of their magnetic environments. In this framework, externally dominated environments respond to solar influences, like Earth. Internally dominated environments, respond to in-system influences, like Jupiter. Material transport occurs differently depending on the regime. For example, interchange injections are a transport process bridging near-planet and far regions and are commonly associated with internal influences. Studying interchange provides insights to how transport occurs in magnetic environments. Within our solar system, Saturn presents a case of both internal and external influences, allowing observations of a complex system of transport. We present a study where we use Cassini spacecraft observations to pursue a large statistical study of how interchange events show signs of transport from different regions of the magnetic environments. We find interchange events transport more highly energized than expected material toward Saturn. In addition, we find that this material is lost through interactions with a dense water cloud sourced from Enceladus, one of Saturn’s moons. As the astronomy community continues toward understanding of exoplanets, this study provides potential insights toward these new environments.


<!--- Recommended citation: 'Azari, A. R., Allen, R. C., Liemohn, M. W., Jia, X., Dewey, R. M., Mitchell, D. G., Paranicas, C., and N. Sergis (2020, Submitted). &quot;System Wide Evidence of Particle Loss and Acceleration around Saturn&quot;<i>Under review</i> --->
